Excerpt from
The Project Gutenberg EBook of George Washington's Rules of Civility
by Moncure D. Conway

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

Title: George Washington's Rules of Civility
       Traced to their Sources and Restored by Moncure D. Conway

Author: Moncure D. Conway

Release Date: April 15, 2004 [EBook #12029]

Language: English

GEORGE WASHINGTON'S RULES OF CIVILITY

Traced to their Sources and Restored
BY MONCURE D. CONWAY
1890

Among the manuscript books of George Washington, preserved in the State
Archives at Washington City, the earliest bears the date, written in it
by himself, 1745. Washington was born February 11, 1731 O.S., so that
while writing in this book he was either near the close of his
fourteenth, or in his fifteenth, year. 


1st. Every Action done in Company ought to be with Some Sign of Respect,
to those that are Present.

     All actions done before others should be with some sign of
     respectful feeling to the entire company.


2d. When in Company, put not your Hands to any Part of the Body not
usually Discovered.

     In the presence of any one, never put your hand to any part of the
     person not usually uncovered. As for the hands and face they are
     usually visible. In order to form a habit in this point of decency,
     practise it even when with your intimate friend.


3d. Shew Nothing to your Friend that may affright him.

     Show nothing to your companion that may grieve him.


4th. In the Presence of Others sing not to yourself with a humming
Noise, nor Drum, with your Fingers or Feet.

     Do not seek amusement in singing to yourself, unless beyond the
     hearing of others, nor drum with your hands or feet.


5th. If you Cough, Sneeze, Sigh, or Yawn, do it not Loud, but Privately;
and Speak not in your Yawning, but put your handkerchief or Hand before
your face and turn aside.

  
     Whenever you cough or sneeze, if you can control these efforts of
     nature, do not let the sound be high or strong. Do not heave sighs
     so piercing as to attract attention. Do not breathe heavily, or
     make noises in yawning. If you can, abstain from yawning,
     especially while with any one, or in conversation. For it is a
     plain sign of a certain dislike of those with whom you dwell. If
     you cannot keep from yawning, at least be careful not to speak
     while doing so, and not to gape excessively; press your mouth
     adroitly or n turning a little from the company.


6th. Sleep not when others Speak, Sit not when others stand, Speak not
when you should hold your Peace, walk not when others Stop

     It is an incivility and an impertinence to doze while the company
     is conversing, to be seated while the rest stand, to walk on when
     others pause, and to speak when you should be silent, or listen.
     For those in authority, as a Master in school, there are times and
     places when it is admissible to walk alone.


7th. Put not off your Cloths in the presence of Others, nor go out of
your Chamber half Dressed.


     It is not seemly to leave your bed disarranged, to dress or undress
     before others, or to leave your chamber half-dressed, covered with
     a hood, or night-cap, or to remain standing in your room or at your
     desk with open gown. And although you have a servant to make your
     bed, nevertheless, take care when you go out to leave it uncovered.


8th. At Play and at Fire its Good manners to give Place to the last
Commer, and affect not to Speak Louder than ordenary.

     It is impolite at play, or at the fireside, to make the new-comers
     wait for places too long.

     _(In the second clause, "affect not" &c., the Washington MS.
     follows Hawkins in misunderstanding a phrase of the next Maxim:
     "Prenez garde de vous échauffer trop au jeu, & aux emportements qui
     s'y eleu[~e]t,"--a warning against being overheated at play, and
     "carried away by its excitements.")_


10th. When you Sit down, Keep your Feet firm and Even, without putting
one on the other or Crossing them

     When seated, the feet should be placed well on the ground, in even
     distance with the legs, and neither a leg or a foot should be
     crossed on the other.


11th. Shift not yourself in the Sight of others nor Gnaw your nails.

     It is insufferably impolite to stretch the body, extend the arms,
     or to assume different postures.

     Do not pare your nails in public, much less gnaw them.


12th. Shake not the head, Feet, or Legs rowl not the Eys, lift not one
eyebrow higher than the other wry not the mouth, and bedew no mans face
with your Spittle, by appr[oaching too nea]r [when] you Speak.


     Shake not the head, nor fidget the legs, nor roll the eyes, nor
     frown, nor make mouths. Be careful not to let saliva escape with
     your words, nor any spittle fly into the faces of those with whom
     you converse. To avoid such accident do not approach them too near,
     but keep at a reasonable distance.


13th Kill no Vermin as Fleas, lice ticks &c in the Sight of Others, if
you See any filth or thick Spittle put your foot Dexteriously upon it if
it be upon the Cloths of your Companions, Put it off privately, and if
it be upon your own Cloths return Thanks to him who puts it off


     Do not stop to kill a flea, or other disgusting insect of the kind,
     in the presence of any one. If anything disgusting offends the
     sight on the ground, as phlegm, etc., put your foot on it. If it be
     on any garment of one to whom you are talking, do not show it to
     him or another, but do your best to remove it unobserved. If any
     one oblige you in a thing of that kind make him your
     acknowledgments.


14th. Turn not your Back to others especially in Speaking, Jog not the
Table or Desk on which Another reads or writes lean not upon any one.


     When one meets people, it is very unbecoming in speaking to them to
     turn one's back and shoulders to them. It is an impertinent action
     to knock against the table, or to shake the desk, which another
     person is using for reading or writing. It is uncivil to lean
     against any one, or to pluck his dress when speaking to him, or
     while entertaining him in conversation.


15th. Keep your Nails clean and Short, also your Hands and Teeth Clean,
yet without Shewing any great Concern for them


     Take good care not to stop, in any sort of conversation, to adjust
     your bands, or to pull up your stockings to make them join so as to
     look more gallant. Do not let your nails be full of dirt or too
     long. Have a great regard for the cleanliness of your hands, but do
     not be finikin about it.


— Rules numbered 16-110 not included here. See: http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/12029/pg12029.txt
